Readme for 3rd Year Project
David Ryan 
Computing(Games Design and Development)
P10010357
3 Scenes in DirectX. Entered as part of the DirectX Ireland Challenge At Gamesfleadh.

Winner of DirectX Ireland Challenge 2013 at Gamesfleadh.

This project consists of 3 scenes.
The first of which is a scene which shows refraction of a texture, reflection of a view, rendering a view to a texture,
a 3d Camera, Perturbed Clouds which move about, A Skybox, A Generation of a relatively flat terrain, A Quad for water which
is added to the terrain, and  A height mapped Terrain. 

The second of which is a scene which showcases bumpmapping and Level of Detail based on camera distance to a terrain. It also contains the perturbed clouds and 3d camera.  

The third of which represents a form of text based model loading. This is done using the format indicated on rastertek.com, wherein an obj file is converted to a text file for easier use. It also showcases the use of DirectSound. This also contains a 3d camera. 

Font handling is present in each project. All of which are consistent with each other. 

The same can be said of the terrain generation. In which all are generated by the reading in of a bitmap file and assigning values based on colour. (rastertek, and seen in xna tutorials on riemers.net)

System handling (windows and messages) are handled within their own class. The same can be said of Direct3D in its original initialisation and implementations. 

Each class handles its own index and vertex buffers where required. 

Shader setup have their own class.

Each shader is marked with a .ps or .vs extension for ease of use. These are all hlsl files. The .ps .vs style is used and encouraged by the tutorials found at rastertek.com.




TO USE THESE PROJECTS:
Visual Studio 2010 is required.
The DirectX SDK must be installed. 
The project VC++ Directories must have the Include of the DirectX SDK included in the include.
The Lib x86 of DirectX SDK must be added to the libraries of the VC++ Directories.

Your computer must have a graphics card capable of running DirectX 11/10. Otherwise the Direct3d Object will not initialize properly. 

Also. The focus must be on the application when building at the start. as keyboard is exclusive


This is my compiled work of 3 projects. With knowledge and code sourced from rastertek.com, braynzarsoft.com, the microsoft developer network, Frank Luna's Introduction to 3d Game Programming with DirectX11, and also Beginning Games Programming with DirectX 11. I have also source various art assets(heightmaps, models, normal maps, bitmaps, and some of the shader resources) online. This hopefully stands to fair use. As this is in no way commercial.
This has been an iteritative project. Where I went from opening the window and then finally to water. 

Path:
window opening
render triangle
render cube
render cube model
render cube using lighting
render cube with multitexture
render and rotate cube
multiple models
frustum culling (not used in the least)
terrain generation
terrain with skybox
terrain with skybox with perturbed clouds
terrain with skybox with perturbed clouds with colormap
terrain with skybox with perturbed clouds with bump map (scene 2)
terrain with skybox with perturbed clouds with quad of water
terrain with skybox with perturbed clouds with quad of water with reflection
terrain with skybox with perturbed clouds with quad of water with reflection and refraction

NOTE: WHAT I SHOULD HAVE LEARNT IS DISPLACEMENT MAPPING


I tried to name my variables so that they didn't confuse future me. So the names are fairly standard. 


 
 



